### Poisson Regression: Things to consider

* When there seems to be an issue of dispersion, we should first check if our model is appropriately specified, such as omitted variables and functional forms. For example, if we omitted the predictor variable prog in the example above, our model would seem to have a problem with over-dispersion. In other words, a misspecified model could present a symptom like an over-dispersion problem.
* Assuming that the model is correctly specified, the assumption that the conditional variance is equal to the conditional mean should be checked. There are several tests including the likelihood ratio test of over-dispersion parameter alpha by running the same model using negative binomial distribution. R package pscl (Political Science Computational Laboratory, Stanford University) provides many functions for binomial and count data including odTest for testing over-dispersion.
* One common cause of over-dispersion is excess zeros, which in turn are generated by an additional data generating process. In this situation, zero-inflated model should be considered.
* If the data generating process does not allow for any 0s (such as the number of days spent in the hospital), then a zero-truncated model may be more appropriate.
* Count data often have an exposure variable, which indicates the number of times the event could have happened. This variable should be incorporated into a Poisson model with the use of the offset option.
* The outcome variable in a Poisson regression cannot have negative numbers, and the exposure cannot have 0s.
* Many different measures of pseudo-R-squared exist. They all attempt to provide information similar to that provided by R-squared in OLS regression, even though none of them can be interpreted exactly as R-squared in OLS regression is interpreted. For a discussion of various pseudo-R-squares, see Long and Freese (2006) or our FAQ page What are pseudo R-squareds?.
* Poisson regression is estimated via maximum likelihood estimation. It usually requires a large sample size.

#### Negative Binomial Regression
* It is not recommended that negative binomial models be applied to small samples.
* One common cause of over-dispersion is excess zeros by an additional data generating process. In this situation, zero-inflated model should be considered.
* If the data generating process does not allow for any 0s (such as the number of days spent in the hospital), then a zero-truncated model may be more appropriate.
* Count data often have an exposure variable, which indicates the number of times the event could have happened. This variable should be incorporated into your negative binomial regression model with the use of the offset option. See the glm documentation for details.
* The outcome variable in a negative binomial regression cannot have negative numbers.
* You will need to use the m1$resid command to obtain the residuals from our model to check other assumptions of the negative binomial model (see Cameron and Trivedi (1998) and Dupont (2002) for more information).

### Zero-Inflated Poisson Regression
* Since zip has both a count model and a logit model, each of the two models should have good predictors. The two models do not necessarily need to use the same predictors.
* Problems of perfect prediction, separation or partial separation can occur in the logistic part of the zero-inflated model.
* Count data often use exposure variables to indicate the number of times the event could have happened. You can incorporate a logged version of the exposure variable into your model by using the offset() option.
* It is not recommended that zero-inflated Poisson models be applied to small samples. What constitutes a small sample does not seem to be clearly defined in the literature.

### Zero-Inflated Negative Binomial Regression: Things to consider
* Question about the over-dispersion parameter is in general a tricky one. A large over-dispersion parameter could be due to a miss-specified model or could be due to a real process with over-dispersion. Adding an over-dispersion problem does not necessarily improve a miss-specified model.
* The zero inflated negative binomial model has two parts, a negative binomial count model and the logit model for predicting excess zeros, so you might want to review these Data Analysis Example pages, Negative Binomial Regression and Logit Regression.
* Since zero inflated negative binomial has both a count model and a logit model, each of the two models should have good predictors. The two models do not necessarily need to use the same predictors.
* Problems of perfect prediction, separation or partial separation can occur in the logistic part of the zero-inflated model.
* Count data often use exposure variable to indicate the number of times the event could have happened. You can incorporate exposure (also called an offset) into your model by using the ``offset()`` function.
* It is not recommended that zero-inflated negative binomial models be applied to small samples. What constitutes a small sample does not seem to be clearly defined in the literature.

### Zero-Truncated Poisson Regression: things to consider
* Count data often use exposure variable to indicate the number of times the event could have happened. 
You can incorporate exposure into your model by using the ``exposure()`` option.
* It is not recommended that zero-truncated poisson models be applied to small samples. 
What constitutes a small sample does not seem to be clearly defined in the literature.
